## Please give an example of a software component you have designed and written from concept to deployment, outlining the steps you have took.

Using concourse and Continuous Integration, I have helped to build a Monitoring and Tracking application for Glasgow City Council. My team and I have worked on creating an interactive, user focused web application that will allow teachers from schools across Glasgow to monitor their pupils throughout their time at school. By engaging with a small group of teachers in the Glasgow area, I have helped to gather requirements for the projects scope, focusing on what teachers in both primary and secondary schools would find useful. Aiming to build an intuitive application, using Agile SCRUM, we split the work components into relevant sprints, allowing for a demo to the client every two weeks, where we show the work that we have done in accordance with the Acceptance Criteria that the client has agreed to. The project has some very interesting challenges, it will be used on iPads and so we have focused on mobile first, as well as adding interesting UI features such as drag and drop.

## Using the example that you have provided above, tell us about a significant decision you made to solve a technical challenge. Give details of technologies that you chose and why you chose them

In the M&T app, the main cornerstone of all activies are Tracking periods, which are essentially School Terms. Tracking periods allow teachers to monitor pupils academic success against various subjects, as well as extra curricular activies that they do (Rugby), over a certain timeframe. During a recent sprint I was put in charge of creating a Tracking period manager that would allow the displaying of TPs as a bar across months, as well as the editing of these TPs. As the design of the calendar was unique in that it was not to show dates as strict entities, there was a challenge in approximating where a TP would start and end in each month. As such I had created the calendar to have each month as a block which would display TPs as a bar within the block. I first set out each month, with a start and end date, then I used a JS library, Luxon, that allows date diffing, to determine whether a TP fell within or outwith a month. By determining the date difference and using ES6's Math.sign() I could tell where a TP would lie in regards to each month. 

## Using the example that you provided above tell us about how you ensured your software was fit for purpose and of high quality. What did you learn and what would you do differently next time to do a better job?

The Tracking Period Calendar was a component in the makeup of the TP Manager as the dates were technically not to be displayed on the calendar itself, the display bars were to be "approximate". With this in mind, I first dove straight in and tried to test and code a solution, when this failed I took time out before writing any tests or code to plan out how the TP bars would be displayed per month. I experimented with Luxon's Duration object (difference between dates) and from this I noted down various assertions about how TP start and end dates related to the months that they were in or not in. Using these assertions I was able to utilise TDD to ensure the bars displayed correctly in their months. I started with tests for full months, where the bar would take the full box, to working through various partials: ending at the start of month, middle etc. I learned that for more complex problems, both logically and UI related, it is better to plan on paper and experiment with tech, before diving straight into the problem scope.

## What programming language would you prefer to work in? 

Javascript/ECMA6.

### Note:

"TP" refers to Tracking Period.